Link to visualization: http://staff.washington.edu/ladonne/info474/data-exploration/

The data visualization I've created depicts the percent of fatal car crashes per state where the driver was either speeding, alcohol-impaired, or not distracted. I chose to display this data using a bar graph for a couple of reasons. The bars connecting to the x-axis allows for good readability, as it's easy to make the position judgement necessary in identifying which bar is associated to which state. Additionally, the variation in the numerical scale for each subset of the data is relatively small, thus, the scale is granular enough to allow for easy interpretation of corresponding y-axis values. Furthermore, I chose to include hover-over labels for each bar which show the state it's associated with, to further minimize the possibility of confusion. 

I've chosen to include three ways to control the data visualization, each of which display different subsets of the dataset. All three controls concern the percentage of fatal accidents per state, and then each control adds a unique constraint. The default constraint is speeding drivers (e.g. the graph models the percentage of fatal accidents where the drivers were speeding). The other two constraints are alcohol-impaired drivers and drivers who were not considered distracted at the time of the crash. Users can view each of the constrained datasets by selecting one of the buttons along the top of the graph. Upon selection, the graph shifts to represent the new data, still in the form of a bar graph. I chose to separate these three constraints out, because I believe they are all interesting piece of information to know about fatal car crashes, but they would be overwhelming to display together. The graph would've been extremely crowded, and it would've detracted from the granularity of the scale each graph possess, as the data would be more variable. Additionally, displaying these three constraints together would insinuate that there was some sort of relationship between each factor. While there might be, that is not something that is communicated in this dataset, and it would be misleading to display the graph in a way which would lead people to assume that. Furthermore, I decided to switch the colors of the bars between each graph, to draw attention to the fact that the data is changing and not necessarily related to the other visualizations.